ILOAT, however, appeared to have the edge over UNAT.
Tell you what. I can give you a ride to Belle's, a diner five miles down.
A/AC.154/363 Letter dated 20 September 2005 from the Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the Chairman of the Committee [A C E F R S]
He's in jail. Maximum security, for Christ's sake.
Throughout the nineteenth century and in the first half of the twentieth, as we heard earlier, over 60 million Europeans emigrated, primarily to the Americas — I repeat, 60 million.
He liked the dress Mommy bought for me.
The Panel finds that PIC restored its levels of urea production for financial year 1994/95 to 726,805 metric tons and for the financial year 1995/96 to 839,100 metric tons, which further supports the conclusion that PIC reasonably projected its urea production for the FP claim period.
Management of the consequences of gender-based violence in reproductive health services.
• United Nations Mission in Haiti
Women working in the informal and agricultural sectors were particularly badly off.
It is anticipated that, in June, a four-week trial will begin to ascertain the viability of new arrangements for effecting the electronic transmission of authentication data from all four sites.
Even lke wanted to pose for a photo in front of that huge trophy.
However, information from various sources - including NGOs - indicates that these statistics show only the tip of an iceberg.
Right here.
This paper is fully compatible with the protocol on humanitarian issues recently agreed to, but not yet signed, in Abuja.
Four additional cleaners (Local level) will be required to maintain safehouses, which are now occupied for most of the year due to the increase in the number of witnesses.
That's the point. It stopped.
(a) An assessment of the funding needs of Parties which are developing countries or countries with economies in transition for the period 2006-2010;
Car 5
Commander, they're calling you to the phone.
14.11 The regular budget resources for the biennium 2004-2005 amount to $9,339,800 and reflect an increase of $984,700 or 11.7 per cent, distributed as follows: (a) $611,200 representing the delayed impact of the six new posts (1 P-5, 2 P-4, 2 P-3 and 1 P-2) established under the Office of the Executive Director, Office of the Deputy Executive Director and the Programme Coordination and Management Unit in the biennium 2002-2003; (b) $170,900 for the establishment of one new P-5 post for the Chief, Evaluation and Oversight Unit of UNEP and one new Local level post to provide programme and administrative support; (c) $138,100 for establishment of one new P-5 post for the Scientific Secretary of the secretariat of the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation; and (d) $64,500 for non-post costs, including provisions for consultants, general operating expenses and data-processing equipment.
So you're telling me a giant spider ate Gladys?
The report deals extensively with the specific difficulties confronted by landlocked developing countries.
UNAMA is working closely on this with the Administration.
Expressing concern regarding the unsustainable agendas of the World Bank, IMF and WTO, they urged the United Nations to uphold the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and protect the rights of the poor and oppressed.
We're only waiting for the results to be declared l've spent so much in this election lf l lose this election, l'll have to commit suicide
Aah! Do you have a plastic bag?
Hence, there was a need to establish a rules-based and truly multilateral monetary system.
This realization demonstrated the need to rethink responses and to develop innovative and creative approaches to address the needs of the most vulnerable across the region.
Absolutely. Along with my crew, including Ulysses,
For the text, see paragraph … below.
Recalling its resolutions 56/196 of 21 December 2001 and 57/259 of 20 December 2002 and other resolutions relating to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,
The General Committee, by 11 votes to 3, with 4 abstentions, decided to recommend that this item be considered directly in plenary meeting.
You're gonna lock me up?
You'll find Goki outside.
My Special Representative, regional leaders, Somali religious leaders and elders and the rest of the international community have similarly encouraged those groups to seize the moment and join in the international effort in pursuit of bringing peace to Somalia.
Notification of disagreement under article 1(4) of the Agreement: Japan (12 December 2002)1
A solution to the Iranian nuclear issue would contribute to global non-proliferation efforts and to realizing the objective of a Middle East free from weapons of mass destruction, including their means of delivery.
On 10 September 2001 a petition for the early termination of supervision was submitted on behalf of the nine former prisoners still subject to parole conditions.
The health data may be joined with data from a database containing genetic data and a database containing genealogical data.
They have regarded the collective assurances provided so far, including those contained in Security Council resolutions 255 of 1968 and 984 of 1995, as overburdened with conditions and caveats and have called for, instead, legally binding assurances.
We call Shenzhou 7 "Sheven".
On this questionnaire, see the seventh report (A/CN.4/526), para.
He set us up, Lucy. The man set us up.
The following is the draft provisional agenda for the thirty-fifth session of the Committee:
Would you ask somebody to lynch you and tell you where to go and how to look, then refuse to pay you?
- No, it's not a mistrial!
Please don't choose based on photos
Adopted at the 52nd plenary meeting, on 19 November 2002, without a vote, on the recommendation of the Committee (A/57/571, para. 7)The draft resolution recommended in the report was sponsored in the Committee by: Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Gambia, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, Mali, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Thailand, Tunisia, Uganda and Zimbabwe.
Tell me, is this...the better way?
(a) Progress on the implementation of decision 1/CP.10;
As a result, the proportion of women in the Congress of the Union rose significantly.
7) Reference to international instruments - By referencing several international instruments on civil and political rights, the Collective was better able to influence the government.
More than this world gives
Do you think that we would ever go to jail if we were caught?
Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,Resolution 217 A (III). the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex. the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against WomenResolution 34/180, annex. and the Convention on the Rights of the Child,Resolution 44/25, annex.
- Some paternal wisdom. How about that?
And then again, had I turned off, say at 90 degrees, to try and avoid them, you're still turning across quite a number of them.
Remedies - review provisions under the Model Law, chapter VI (A/CN.9/WG.I/WP.64, paras.
Finally, the need to finance disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programmes through the assessed budget for peacekeeping (recommendation 8) remains an issue of concern.
The relationship between epidemiological and demographic transition is reciprocal and has implications for the health conditions of the population and on the extent of the demand for health care.
- But here, it's different?
There is also a Directorate for Occupational Hygiene, Health and Safety in the Ministry of Justice and Labour.
My delegation voted in favour of the present resolution, convinced that there must be convergence of all international efforts if stability is to be achieved in Iraq for the benefit of its people, who have suffered greatly in the past and who continue to suffer from daily acts of violence, which have repercussions on the stability of the entire region.
Hit him for me.
You've been expelled!
Rule relating to article 90 (Competing requests)
In this connection, has the work of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission integrated a gender perspective?
Agriculture is a central element in the current negotiations.
(Chuckles) Uh... okay. Uh, you're here. That means that the party is starting.
In his agenda for further change, the Secretary-General noted that the General Service staff are an extraordinary source of skill and expertise and emphasized the importance of creating more opportunities for them.
Reminders seemed to help elicit many of these responses.
(b) Ensure that - as promised by the President - the necessary earmarked budgets are provided to the special unit created to investigate these crimes not only to deal with the current cases but also with all the cases waiting for investigation;
The endpoint of such a process may be the hitherto unimaginable use of weapons of mass destruction.
The regional commissions, with the assistance of the secretariat of the Commission on Sustainable Development, organized regional meetings and ad hoc sessions on water, sanitation and human settlements as contributions to the twelfth session of the Commission.
Suely de Oliveira - Sub-Department for Institutional Articulation (Subsecretária de Relações Institucionais)
- You were the spider in mywindow.
His delegation regretted the absence of a system for accurate data collection, analysis and reporting on consultants and contractors and supported the recommendations in the report of the Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) on the use of consultants in the United Nations (A/55/59), especially those recommendations that were also supported by CPC and ACABQ.
Unmarried women are discouraged by cultural taboos to visit gynaecologists.
- What would you have me do? Draco.
With regard to overall coordination and consultation mechanisms, high-level visits take place between UNHCR and the Council secretariat on a regular basis.
Consequently, the Commission decided to publish a sequel to this publication.
- Who says I'm lonely?
Yeah, it's "Penny already eats our food.
Well, since time is of the essence, perhaps I'll just go ahead and add a plus-three to the Prophet's invitation.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to assure you that no media pressure will influence my objective judgment.
The Lebanese military authorities contacted the Palestinians to ensure safe passage for the team to enter the valley.
cool. cool. wecannotlethim even wecannotlethim even suspect, even at tribal, because
On 26 January, in Lunyenya, south of Bukavu, a woman over the age of 70 was abducted and then raped by two FARDC members, according to a note from the OHCHR field office dated 30 January 2006.
Ms. Gabr said that it was important to provide adequate funding for basic social services, especially education.
They could have asked the Federal Court for leave to apply for judicial review of the PRRA decision and, at the same time, could have requested a stay of the removal order pending the outcome.
She's going in the water. OK.
Well, Father is a little worried about you.
A massive logistics operation was soon established, however, with military assets from over 17 countries, which enabled local authorities and humanitarian organizations to assist stricken communities.
Enough. Nothing to see.
It has at its disposal the instruments to manage political conflicts and the underlying development problems that nurture hatred and despair.
I would also like to apologize... to all my working partners.
We are particularly pleased with the Council's cooperation with and support for regional organizations to resolve conflicts, especially in Africa.
New donor commitments on ODA are welcome, though the targets are several years in the future.
Even my friends think I'm sleeping with someone who never heard of
