ILOAT, however, appeared to have the edge over UNAT.
然而，劳工组织行政法庭相对于联合国行政法庭似乎有些优势。
Tell you what. I can give you a ride to Belle's, a diner five miles down.
这样吧，我载你们到5英里外的贝拉餐厅
A/AC.154/363 Letter dated 20 September 2005 from the Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the Chairman of the Committee [A C E F R S]
A/AC.154/363 2005年9月20日美利坚合众国常驻联合国代表给委员会主席的信 [阿、中、英、法、俄、西]
He's in jail. Maximum security, for Christ's sake.
- 他人在戒备森严的牢里
Throughout the nineteenth century and in the first half of the twentieth, as we heard earlier, over 60 million Europeans emigrated, primarily to the Americas — I repeat, 60 million.
在整个十九世纪和二十世纪上半叶，正如我们先前听到的那样，有6 000多万欧洲人移民海外，主要移向美洲——我重复一遍，6 000万。
He liked the dress Mommy bought for me.
他說他喜欢妈妈买给我的裙
The Panel finds that PIC restored its levels of urea production for financial year 1994/95 to 726,805 metric tons and for the financial year 1995/96 to 839,100 metric tons, which further supports the conclusion that PIC reasonably projected its urea production for the FP claim period.
小组认为，石化公司尿素产量在1994/95财政年度恢复到726,805公吨，在1995/96财政年度恢复到839,100公吨，由此进一步证明了结 论，即，石化公司关于化肥厂索赔期尿素产量的预测是合理的。
Management of the consequences of gender-based violence in reproductive health services.
94. 在生殖保健服务内对基于性别的暴力的后果进行管理。
• United Nations Mission in Haiti
• 联合国海地特派团
Women working in the informal and agricultural sectors were particularly badly off.
在非正规部门和农业部门工作的妇女尤其贫困。
It is anticipated that, in June, a four-week trial will begin to ascertain the viability of new arrangements for effecting the electronic transmission of authentication data from all four sites.
30．预料在6月，一次为期四个星期的实验将开始确定从所有四个网址以电子方式传送核证数据的新安排是否可行。
Even lke wanted to pose for a photo in front of that huge trophy.
也想在那个巨大的奖杯面前来张合影。
However, information from various sources - including NGOs - indicates that these statistics show only the tip of an iceberg.
不过，包括非政府组织在内的各种来源的资料表明，这些统计数字仅仅是冰山一角。
Right here.
就这里，快点
This paper is fully compatible with the protocol on humanitarian issues recently agreed to, but not yet signed, in Abuja.
该文件完全符合最近在阿布贾商定、但尚未签署的人道主义问题议定书。
Four additional cleaners (Local level) will be required to maintain safehouses, which are now occupied for most of the year due to the increase in the number of witnesses.
64. 请求增加4名清洁工（当地雇员）来维持安全住所的清洁，由于证人数目增加，安全住所一年的大部分时间都有人住。
That's the point. It stopped.
问题是现在停止了
(a) An assessment of the funding needs of Parties which are developing countries or countries with economies in transition for the period 2006-2010;
(a) 2006-2010年期间发展中国家或经济转型国家缔约方的资金需求评估；
Car 5
五号车
Commander, they're calling you to the phone.
主人．您的电话
14.11 The regular budget resources for the biennium 2004-2005 amount to $9,339,800 and reflect an increase of $984,700 or 11.7 per cent, distributed as follows: (a) $611,200 representing the delayed impact of the six new posts (1 P-5, 2 P-4, 2 P-3 and 1 P-2) established under the Office of the Executive Director, Office of the Deputy Executive Director and the Programme Coordination and Management Unit in the biennium 2002-2003; (b) $170,900 for the establishment of one new P-5 post for the Chief, Evaluation and Oversight Unit of UNEP and one new Local level post to provide programme and administrative support; (c) $138,100 for establishment of one new P-5 post for the Scientific Secretary of the secretariat of the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation; and (d) $64,500 for non-post costs, including provisions for consultants, general operating expenses and data-processing equipment.
14.11 2004-2005两年期的经常预算资源为9 339 800美元，增加了984 700美元，增幅为11.7％，分配情况如下：(a) 2002-2003两年期在执行主任办公室、副执行主任办公室及方案协调和管理股新设六个员额（1个P-5，2个P-4，2个P-3和1个P-2）的延迟影响费用611 200美元；(b) 环境规划署评价和监督股新设一个P-5职等股长员额和一个提供方案和行政支持的当地雇员员额的费用170 900美元；(c) 联合国原子辐射影响问题科学委员会（辐射科委）秘书处新设一个P-5职等科学秘书员额的费用138 100美元； (d) 非员额费用64 500美元，包括顾问费、一般业务费用和数据处理设备费用。
So you're telling me a giant spider ate Gladys?
你是说一只大蜘蛛吃了葛莱蒂?
The report deals extensively with the specific difficulties confronted by landlocked developing countries.
该报告对内陆发展中国家所面临的各种具体困难做了广泛的分析。
UNAMA is working closely on this with the Administration.
联阿援助团正与该政权就此密切合作。
Expressing concern regarding the unsustainable agendas of the World Bank, IMF and WTO, they urged the United Nations to uphold the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and protect the rights of the poor and oppressed.
他们对世界银行、货币基金组织和世贸组织无法持续的议程表示关注，敦促联合国坚持《联合国宪章》的原则和保障贫穷和受压迫的人的权利。
We're only waiting for the results to be declared l've spent so much in this election lf l lose this election, l'll have to commit suicide
The famous dance party from Delhi has already arrived... 庆典已准备就绪 all arrangements for the celebration are in place 就等着宣布结果 We're only waiting for the results to be declared
Aah! Do you have a plastic bag?
你有塑料袋吗?
Hence, there was a need to establish a rules-based and truly multilateral monetary system.
因此，有必要建立一种基于规则的真正多边货币制度。
This realization demonstrated the need to rethink responses and to develop innovative and creative approaches to address the needs of the most vulnerable across the region.
认识到这一点，就证明必须重新思考对策并拿出创新性和创造性手段，满足整个区域的最脆弱人群的需求。
Absolutely. Along with my crew, including Ulysses,
当然, 和我的队员们一起,包括尤利西斯
For the text, see paragraph … below.
案文见下文第……段。
Recalling its resolutions 56/196 of 21 December 2001 and 57/259 of 20 December 2002 and other resolutions relating to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,
回顾其2001年12月21日第56/196号决议和2002年12月20日第57/259号决议，以及与《联合国关于在发生严重干旱和/或荒漠化的国家特别是在非洲防治荒漠化的公约》 有关的其他决议，
The General Committee, by 11 votes to 3, with 4 abstentions, decided to recommend that this item be considered directly in plenary meeting.
总务委员会以11票对3票、4票弃权决定建议直接在全体委员会审议该项目。
You're gonna lock me up?
你要把我关起来?
You'll find Goki outside.
豪鬼不会有事的
My Special Representative, regional leaders, Somali religious leaders and elders and the rest of the international community have similarly encouraged those groups to seize the moment and join in the international effort in pursuit of bringing peace to Somalia.
我的特别代表、区域领导人、索马里宗教领袖和长老以及国际社会其他各方都鼓励这些团体抓住时机，加入国际努力，力争在索马里实现和平。
Notification of disagreement under article 1(4) of the Agreement: Japan (12 December 2002)1
加入：尼加拉瓜(2002年12月12日) 4
A solution to the Iranian nuclear issue would contribute to global non-proliferation efforts and to realizing the objective of a Middle East free from weapons of mass destruction, including their means of delivery.
解决伊朗核问题将有助于全球防扩散努力，有助于实现中东消除大规模毁灭性武器包括其运载工具的目标。
On 10 September 2001 a petition for the early termination of supervision was submitted on behalf of the nine former prisoners still subject to parole conditions.
2001年9月10日，为仍处于假释期的9名前囚犯提交了提早结束监管的申请书。
The health data may be joined with data from a database containing genetic data and a database containing genealogical data.
健康资料可与遗传资料数据库和遗传资料数据库的资料合并。
They have regarded the collective assurances provided so far, including those contained in Security Council resolutions 255 of 1968 and 984 of 1995, as overburdened with conditions and caveats and have called for, instead, legally binding assurances.
它们认为迄今为止所提供的集体保证，包括安全理事会1968年第255号决议和1995年第984号决议中包含的保证，附带了太多的条件和警告，要求有法律约束力的保证。
We call Shenzhou 7 "Sheven".
神舟七号，就叫「神七」
On this questionnaire, see the seventh report (A/CN.4/526), para.
关于此问卷，请见第七次报告，A/CN.4/526，第17段。
He set us up, Lucy. The man set us up.
露西，他耍我们，他骗了我们
The following is the draft provisional agenda for the thirty-fifth session of the Committee:
628. 委员会第三十五届会议临时议程草案如下：
Would you ask somebody to lynch you and tell you where to go and how to look, then refuse to pay you?
你会让别人把你捆起来 牵着走 Would you ask somebody to lynch you 告诉你做什么 怎么做 却不付你一文钱吗 and tell you where to go and how to look, then refuse to pay you?
- No, it's not a mistrial!
不 这不会是未决审判
Please don't choose based on photos
等一下　請不要再光用相片來決定了
Adopted at the 52nd plenary meeting, on 19 November 2002, without a vote, on the recommendation of the Committee (A/57/571, para. 7)The draft resolution recommended in the report was sponsored in the Committee by: Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Gambia, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, Mali, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Thailand, Tunisia, Uganda and Zimbabwe.
2002年11月19日第52次全体会议根据委员会的建议（A/57/571，第7段）报告中建议的决议草案由下列提案国在委员会提出：孟加拉国、中国、埃及、冈比亚、印度、印度尼西亚、约旦、肯尼亚、马里、墨西哥、摩洛哥、尼日利亚、巴基斯坦、泰国、突尼斯、乌干达和津巴布韦。 未经表决而通过
Tell me, is this...the better way?
告诉我 这样更好吗?
(a) Progress on the implementation of decision 1/CP.10;
第1/CP.10号决定的执行进展情况； 与最不发达国家有关的事项。
As a result, the proportion of women in the Congress of the Union rose significantly.
469. 因此，女性在议会中所占比例大大增加了。
7) Reference to international instruments - By referencing several international instruments on civil and political rights, the Collective was better able to influence the government.
7) 参考国际文书——通过参考一些有关公民权利和政治权利的国际文书，魁北克集体能够更好地影响政府。
More than this world gives
还得那么少
Do you think that we would ever go to jail if we were caught?
你认为 我们会永远去坐牢 如果我们抓住了？
Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,Resolution 217 A (III). the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex. the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against WomenResolution 34/180, annex. and the Convention on the Rights of the Child,Resolution 44/25, annex.
重申《世界人权宣言》、第217 A(III)号决议。 《经济、社会、文化权利国际盟约》、见第2200 A(XXI)号决议，附件。 《消除一切形式种族歧视国际公约》、第2106 A(XX)号决议，附件。 《消除对妇女一切形式歧视公约》第34/180号决议，附件。 和《儿童权利公约》，第44/25号决议，附件。
- Some paternal wisdom. How about that?
- 来点父辈的智慧，怎么样？
And then again, had I turned off, say at 90 degrees, to try and avoid them, you're still turning across quite a number of them.
其次,要是我拐弯,比方说 转90度,以试图避开他们, 你仍会穿过许多的它们(轰炸机)
Remedies - review provisions under the Model Law, chapter VI (A/CN.9/WG.I/WP.64, paras.
A. 救济 - 示范法第六章下的审查规定（A/CN.9/WG.I/WP.64，第5-9段）
Finally, the need to finance disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programmes through the assessed budget for peacekeeping (recommendation 8) remains an issue of concern.
63. 最后，通过维和预算为解除武装、复员和重返社会方案筹集资金（建议8）仍然是一个关切的问题。
The relationship between epidemiological and demographic transition is reciprocal and has implications for the health conditions of the population and on the extent of the demand for health care.
17. 流行病与人口结构的转型之间的关系是彼此对应的，影响到人口健康情况和保健方面的需求。
- But here, it's different?
但那是不一樣的 不一樣？
There is also a Directorate for Occupational Hygiene, Health and Safety in the Ministry of Justice and Labour.
此外，司法和劳动部专门设立了职业卫生、健康和安全局。
My delegation voted in favour of the present resolution, convinced that there must be convergence of all international efforts if stability is to be achieved in Iraq for the benefit of its people, who have suffered greatly in the past and who continue to suffer from daily acts of violence, which have repercussions on the stability of the entire region.
我国代表团对本决议投了赞成票，我们相信，如果要为伊拉克人民的利益而实现该国的稳定，必须一致作出所有国际努力。 这些人民过去受尽苦难并继续每天遭遇暴力行为，对整个区域的稳定造成了影响。
Hit him for me.
给我打得连他妈妈都不认识他
You've been expelled!
可是人家不要你，把你赶了出来
Rule relating to article 90 (Competing requests)
关于第九十条(竞合请求)的规则
In this connection, has the work of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission integrated a gender perspective?
在这方面，请说明真相与和解委员会的工作中是否纳入了两性平等观点。
Agriculture is a central element in the current negotiations.
75. 农业是目前谈判中的一项核心要素。
(Chuckles) Uh... okay. Uh, you're here. That means that the party is starting.
好 你来了 那派对就正式开始了
In his agenda for further change, the Secretary-General noted that the General Service staff are an extraordinary source of skill and expertise and emphasized the importance of creating more opportunities for them.
秘书长在其进一步改革纲领中指出，一般事务人员是本组织技能和专门知识的特殊来源，并强调为他们创造更多机会的重要性。
Reminders seemed to help elicit many of these responses.
提醒函似乎有助于促使其中许多国家作出答复。
(b) Ensure that - as promised by the President - the necessary earmarked budgets are provided to the special unit created to investigate these crimes not only to deal with the current cases but also with all the cases waiting for investigation;
系统收集一切对儿童的暴力和虐待、特别是法外处死的数据和信息； 如总统所承诺的那样，确保向为调查这些犯罪而设立的特别小组提供必要的特定拨款，不仅处理目前的案件，也处理一切等待调查的案件； 向受害者家庭提供适当支持和赔偿； 限制武器，并确保只有在政府严格控制下才可出售； 既然大多数暴力行为据说产生在Tegucigalpa 和 San Pedro Sula最穷困的城区，因此应处理这些暴力行为的根本原因，包括贫困和社会边缘化； 与媒体合作采取措施，教育公众在处理少年黑帮问题的战略中反对使用暴力和其他非法手段； 确保设立和/或(如果已经存在)加强独立控制和监督警方活动的机制。
The endpoint of such a process may be the hitherto unimaginable use of weapons of mass destruction.
这种过程的极点可能就是迄今难以想象的使用大规模杀伤性武器。
The regional commissions, with the assistance of the secretariat of the Commission on Sustainable Development, organized regional meetings and ad hoc sessions on water, sanitation and human settlements as contributions to the twelfth session of the Commission.
区域委员会在可持续发展委员会秘书处的协助下，举办了几个关于水、卫生和人类住区的区域会议，作为对第十二届委员会会议的一项贡献。
Suely de Oliveira - Sub-Department for Institutional Articulation (Subsecretária de Relações Institucionais)
Suely de Oliveira - 机构磋商分部
- You were the spider in mywindow.
也许是因为你先对我好的
His delegation regretted the absence of a system for accurate data collection, analysis and reporting on consultants and contractors and supported the recommendations in the report of the Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) on the use of consultants in the United Nations (A/55/59), especially those recommendations that were also supported by CPC and ACABQ.
阿尔及利亚代表团对缺少一种收集、分析和汇报有关顾问及承包商的精确资料的体制表示遗憾，并支持联合检查组（联检组）关于联合国使用顾问情况的报告（A/55/59）中的建议，特别那些也得到方案协调会和行预咨委支持的建议。
Unmarried women are discouraged by cultural taboos to visit gynaecologists.
因文化禁忌，未婚妇女不愿看妇产科医生。
- What would you have me do? Draco.
你要我怎么做 德拉科
With regard to overall coordination and consultation mechanisms, high-level visits take place between UNHCR and the Council secretariat on a regular basis.
29. 在全面协调和协商机制方面，难民专员办事处和欧洲委员会秘书处彼此经常有高级别互访。
Consequently, the Commission decided to publish a sequel to this publication.
因此，委员会决定就该出版物出版一份续集。
- Who says I'm lonely?
谁说我孤独了 Who says I'm lonely?
Yeah, it's "Penny already eats our food.
嗯 现在是"佩妮蹭我们吃的 Yeah, it's "Penny already eats our food.
Well, since time is of the essence, perhaps I'll just go ahead and add a plus-three to the Prophet's invitation.
我还是直接在先知的邀请函上 增加三个名额好了
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to assure you that no media pressure will influence my objective judgment.
女士们，先生们，我想向你保证 没有媒体的压力会影响我的客观判断。
The Lebanese military authorities contacted the Palestinians to ensure safe passage for the team to enter the valley.
黎巴嫩军事当局与巴勒斯坦方面进行了联系，以保障小组安全进入山谷。
cool. cool. wecannotlethim even wecannotlethim even suspect, even at tribal, because
我们不能让他起疑 即便是在部落会议上
On 26 January, in Lunyenya, south of Bukavu, a woman over the age of 70 was abducted and then raped by two FARDC members, according to a note from the OHCHR field office dated 30 January 2006.
人权高专办办事处2006年1月30日的说明中报告，2006年1月26日在布卡武南部的Lunyenya，一名70多岁的妇女遭到绑架，被刚果（金）武装部队两名士兵强奸。
Ms. Gabr said that it was important to provide adequate funding for basic social services, especially education.
2．Gabr女士说，为基本的社会服务，特别是教育，提供充足的资金是非常重要的。
They could have asked the Federal Court for leave to apply for judicial review of the PRRA decision and, at the same time, could have requested a stay of the removal order pending the outcome.
她们本可以请求联邦法院批准其申请对遣返前风险评估决定进行司法审查，并同时可以请求在等候结果期间暂缓执行驱逐令。
She's going in the water. OK.
- 它要进水了，好了
Well, Father is a little worried about you.
父亲有一点为你担心
A massive logistics operation was soon established, however, with military assets from over 17 countries, which enabled local authorities and humanitarian organizations to assist stricken communities.
不过，由于17个以上的国家提供军事器材支助，很快开展了规模庞大的后勤行动，使地方当局和人道主义组织能够向受灾社区提供援助。
Enough. Nothing to see.
好了好了，别围着
It has at its disposal the instruments to manage political conflicts and the underlying development problems that nurture hatred and despair.
联合国有各种文书可供用来处理政治冲突以及助长仇恨与失望的潜在发展问题。
I would also like to apologize... to all my working partners.
另外，我要郑重地 向所有的工作伙伴致歉
We are particularly pleased with the Council's cooperation with and support for regional organizations to resolve conflicts, especially in Africa.
我们特别感到满意的是，安全理事会与区域组织进行合作并为其提供支持以解决冲突，特别是非洲的冲突。
New donor commitments on ODA are welcome, though the targets are several years in the future.
欢迎对官方发展援助作出新的捐助承诺，不过这方面的指标是在今后的若干年中。
Even my friends think I'm sleeping with someone who never heard of
我的朋友竟然以为 我和一个我没听过的人上床
